==Datasheet==

Constellation: Sagittarius

Right ascension: 19 h 22 m 38.29770 s

Declination: −44° 27′ 32.2458″

Apparent magnitude: +4.01

Distance: approx. 310 ly

Radius: 2.73 R

Luminosity: 324 L

Temperature: 11,960 K



Beta¹ Sagittarii (β¹ Sagittarii, abbreviated Beta¹ Sgr, β¹ Sgr) is a binary star system in the zodiac constellation of Sagittarius. It is visible to the naked eye with a combined apparent visual magnitude of +4.01. Based upon an annual parallax shift of 10.40 mas as seen from Earth, it is located roughly 310 light-years from the Sun.
The two components are designated Beta¹ Sagittarii A (also named Arkab Prior) and B.


== Nomenclature ==
β¹ Sagittarii (Latinised to Beta¹ Sagittarii) is the system's Bayer designation. The designations of the two components as Beta¹ Sagittarii A and B derive from the convention used by the Washington Multiplicity Catalog (WMC) for multiple star systems, and adopted by the International Astronomical Union (IAU).In 2016, the International Astronomical Union organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalog and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN approved the name Arkab Prior for Beta¹ Sagittarii on 5 October 2016 and it is now so included in the List of IAU-approved Star Names.  For such names relating to members of multiple star systems, and where a component letter (from e.g. Washington Double Star Catalog) is not explicitly listed, the WGSN says that the name should be understood to be attributed to the brightest component by visual brightness.In Chinese, 天淵 (Tiān Yuān), meaning Celestial Spring, refers to an asterism consisting of Beta¹ Sagittarii, Beta² Sagittarii and Alpha Sagittarii. Consequently, Beta¹ Sagittarii itself is known as 天淵二 (Tiān Yuān èr, English: the Second Star of Celestial Spring.)


== Properties ==
At Beta¹ Sagittarii's distance, the visual magnitude is diminished by an extinction factor of 0.17 due to interstellar dust.The pair of stars that constitute this system have an angular separation of 28.3 arc seconds, with an estimated physical separation of about 3,290 AU. The primary, Beta¹ Sagittarii A, is a B-type main sequence star with a stellar classification of B9 V. It is about 95% of the way through its lifespan on the main sequence. The star has around 3.7 times the mass of the Sun and 2.7 times the Sun's radius. The companion, Beta¹ Sagittarii B, is a magnitude 7.4 A-type main sequence star with a class of A5 V.


