==Datasheet==

Constellation: Scorpius
Right ascension: 17 h 37 m 19.12985 s
Declination: –42° 59′ 52.1808″
Apparent magnitude: (1.862 + 6.22)
Distance: approx. 300 ly
Mass: 5.66 ± 0.65 M
Radius: 26 R
Luminosity: 1,834 L
Temperature: 7,268 K
Rotational velocity: 125 km/s
== Brief description ==
Theta Scorpii (θ Scorpii, abbreviated Theta Sco, θ Sco) is a binary star in the southern zodiac constellation of Scorpius. The apparent visual magnitude of this star is +1.87, making it readily visible to the naked eye and one of the brightest stars in the night sky. It is sufficiently near that the distance can be measured directly using the parallax technique and such measurements obtained during the Hipparcos mission yield an estimate of approximately 300 light-years (90 parsecs) from the Sun.The two components are designated Theta Scorpii A (also named Sargas) and B.


== Nomenclature ==
θ Scorpii (Latinised to Theta Scorpii) is the system's Bayer designation. The designations of the two components as Theta Scorpii A and B derive from the convention used by the Washington Multiplicity Catalog (WMC) for multiple star systems, and adopted by the International Astronomical Union (IAU).It bore the traditional name Sargas, of Sumerian origin. Another possible origin is Persian for Arrow Head سر گز. The name 'Sar Gaz' is  used in Iran as a star name, and was used for timing irrigation water shares. In 2016, the IAU organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalogue and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN decided to attribute proper names to individual stars rather than entire multiple systems. It approved the name Sargas for the component Theta Scorpii A on 21 August 2016 and it is now so included in the List of IAU-approved Star Names.In Chinese, 尾宿 (Wěi Xiù), meaning Tail, refers to an asterism consisting of Theta Scorpii, Mu¹ Scorpii, Epsilon Scorpii, Zeta¹ Scorpii and Zeta² Scorpii, Eta Scorpii, Iota¹ Scorpii and Iota² Scorpii, Kappa Scorpii, Lambda Scorpii and Upsilon Scorpii. Consequently, Theta Scorpii itself is known as 尾宿五 (Wěi Xiù wǔ), "the Fifth Star of Tail".


== Properties ==
The primary (Theta Scorpii A) is an evolved bright giant star with a stellar classification of F0 II. With a mass 5.7 times that of the Sun, it has expanded to about 26 times the Sun's radius. It is radiating 1,834 times as much luminosity as the Sun from its outer envelope at an effective temperature of 7,268 K, giving it the yellow-white hued glow of an F-type star. This star is rotating rapidly, giving it an oblate shape with an equatorial radius 19% larger than the polar radius.The magnitude 5.36 companion (Theta Scorpii B) is at an angular separation of 6.470 arcseconds.


== Modern legacy ==
θ Scorpii appears on the  flag of Brazil, symbolising the state of Alagoas.


