Scorpius constellation lies in the southern sky. It represents the scorpion and is associated with the story of Orion in Greek mythology.  Scorpius is one of the zodiac constellations, first catalogued by the Greek astronomer Ptolemy in the 2nd century. Its symbol is ♏. Scorpius pre-dates the Greeks, and is one of the oldest constellations known. The Sumerians called it GIR-TAB, or “the scorpion,” about 5,000 years ago. The constellation is easy to find in the sky because it is located near the centre of the Milky Way. It contains a number of notable stars and deep sky objects, including the bright stars Antares and Shaula, the Butterfly Cluster (Messier 6), the Ptolemy Cluster (Messier 7), Cat’s Paw Nebula (NGC 6334), the Butterfly Nebula (NGC 6302), and the War and Peace Nebula (NGC 6357)
In Greek mythology, the constellation Scorpius was identified with the scorpion that killed Orion, the mythical hunter. The two constellations lie opposite each other in the sky, and Orion is said to be fleeing from the scorpion as it sets just as Scorpius rises. In one version of the myth, Orion tried to ravish the goddess Artemis and she sent the scorpion to kill him. In another version, it was the Earth that sent the scorpion after Orion had boasted that he could kill any wild beast. In ancient Greek times, the constellation Scorpius was significantly larger and comprised of two halves, one with the scorpion’s body and the sting, and one containing the claws. The latter was called Chelae, or “claws.” In the first century BC, the Romans turned the claws into a separate constellation, Libra, the Scales.
Antares – α Scorpii (Alpha Scorpii)
Shaula – λ Scorpii (Lambda Scorpii)
Acrab (Graffias) – β Scorpii (Beta Scorpii)
Dschubba – δ Scorpii (Delta Scorpii)
Sargas – θ Scorpii (Theta Scorpii)
ε Scorpii (Epsilon Scorpii)
Girtab – κ Scorpii (Kappa Scorpii)
π Scorpii (Pi Scorpii)
Jabbah – ν Scorpii (Nu Scorpii, 14 Scorpii)
Girtab – ξ Scorpii (Xi Scorpii)
ι Scorpii (Iota Scorpii)
Al Niyat – σ Scorpii (Sigma Scorpii)
Al Niyat – τ Scorpii (Tau Scorpii)
U Scorpii
Lesath – υ Scorpii (Upsilon Scorpii)
Jabhat al Akrab – ω Scorpii (Omega Scorpii)
G Scorpii
η Scorpii (Eta Scorpii)
ρ Scorpii (Rho Scorpii)
ζ Scorpii (Zeta Scorpii)
μ Scorpii (Mu Scorpii)
18 Scorpii
Gliese 667 (142 G. Scorpii)
HD 159868
Pismis 24-1 (HDE 319718)
Scorpius X-1
PSR B1620-26
Wray 17-96