Serpens constellation lies in the northern hemisphere. Its name means “the serpent” in Latin. Serpens is one of the Greek constellations, first catalogued by the Greek astronomer Ptolemy in the 2nd century.  The constellation is divided into two parts by Ophiuchus, the snake bearer: Serpens Caput, representing the serpent’s head, and Serpens Cauda, the serpent’s tail.  Serpens contains one of the best known nebulae in the sky, the Eagle Nebula (Messier 16), which in turn contains the Pillars of Creation, a star-forming region famously imaged by Hubble. Other notable deep sky objects in the constellation include the large globular cluster Messier 5, the emission nebula IC 4703, Seyfert’s Sextet of galaxies, the ring galaxy known as Hoag’s Object, the Red Square Nebula, and the Serpens South star cluster.
In Greek mythology, Serpens constellation represents a giant snake held by the healer Asclepius, represented by Ophiuchus constellation. Asclepius is usually depicted holding the top half of the snake in his left hand and the tail in his right hand. Asclepius was the son of the god Apollo who was said to be able to bring people back from the dead with his healing powers. In one of the stories, he killed a snake and saw it be brought back to life by a herb that another snake placed on it. It was said that Asclepius later used the same technique. The brightest star in the constellation, Unukalhai (Alpha Serpentis), represents the serpent’s neck, and Alya (Theta Serpentis) marks the tip of the snake’s tail. Serpens constellation dates back to Babylonian times. The Babylonians had two snake constellations. One represented a hybrid of a dragon, lion and bird and roughly corresponded to the constellation we know as Hydra, the water snake. The other Babylonian constellation, called Bašmu, was depicted as a horned serpent, and loosely corresponded to the constellation Ὄφις, created by the Greek astronomer Eudoxus of Cnidus in the 4th century BC, on which Ptolemy’s Serpens constellation was based.
Unukalhai – α Serpentis (Alpha Serpentis)
η Serpentis (Eta Serpentis)
μ Serpentis (Mu Serpentis)
ξ Serpentis (Xi Serpentis)
β Serpentis (Beta Serpentis)
ε Serpentis (Epsilon Serpentis)
δ Serpentis (Delta Serpentis)
γ Serpentis (Gamma Serpentis)
κ Serpentis (Kappa Serpentis)
ν Serpentis (Nu Serpentis)
λ Serpentis (Lambda Serpentis)
Alya – θ Serpentis (Theta Serpentis)
R Serpentis
χ Serpentis (Chi Serpentis)
τ Serpentis (Tau Serpentis)
HD 168443
HD 136118
Gliese 710