Triangulum Australe constellation lies in the southern sky. Its name means “the southern triangle” in Latin.  The three brightest stars in the constellation form an equilateral triangle. Triangulum Australe was created by the Dutch astronomer Petrus Plancius in the late 16th century and the first depiction of the constellation appeared in 1603, in Johann Bayer’s Uranometria.  The constellation is located too far south to be visible from Europe and most of the northern hemisphere, but it never sets below the horizon south of the equator.
Triangulum Australe is not associated with any myths. It is the smallest of the 12 constellations created by the Dutch navigators Frederick de Houtman and Pieter Dirkszoon Keyser in the late 16th century. The first depiction of the constellation appeared in 1589 on a celestial globe by the Flemish cartographer and astronomer Petrus Plancius, where it was called Triangulus Antarcticus and incorrectly placed to the south of the constellation Argo Navis, which has since been split into three smaller constellations. Johann Bayer gave the constellation the name Triangulum Australe in his Uranometria in 1603. Nicolas Louis de Lacaille called the constellation “le Triangle Austral ou le Niveau” on his planisphere in 1756 and described it as a surveyor’s level (“niveau”). It was one of the several constellations that represented surveying instruments. The other two were Circinus, the compass, and Norma, the set square. Johann Bode gave the constellation the alternative name, Libella (the level), in his Uranographia in 1801.
Atria – α Trianguli Australis (Alpha Trianguli Australis)
β Trianguli Australis (Beta Trianguli Australis)
γ Trianguli Australis (Gamma Trianguli Australis)
δ Trianguli Australis (Delta Trianguli Australis)
ε Trianguli Australis (Epsilon Trianguli Australis)
ζ Trianguli Australis (Zeta Trianguli Australis)
κ Trianguli Australis (Kappa Trianguli Australis)
ι Trianguli Australis (Iota Trianguli Australis)
θ Trianguli Australis (Theta Trianguli Australis)
X Trianguli Australis
HD 133683
η Trianguli Australis (Eta Trianguli Australis)
HD 147018
EK Trianguli Australis